[MUSIC]
Welcome back.
In this video we're going to look at
the different types of analyses you can
perform once you have identified
the business problem or opportunity,
developed a hypothesis and
collected relevant data.
As processing capacity continues
to increase, it has opened
the door to a broad range of advanced
algorithms and modeling techniques.
That organizations can use to
produce valuable insights from data.
We will discuss a series of
analytical techniques and
how they are used in the real world.
In the course materials, you have access
to a quick reference sheet that lists out
all techniques for easy future reference.
>> Thanks Dan.
I'm Lorie Wijntjes,
managing director in our data and
analytics practice with almost 30
years experience as a statistician.
At PWC, I have worked on a wide variety
of business problems involving predictive
analytics, data management,
statistical sampling, and survey design.
Some fairly straightforward, and
many that have been complex,
across a wide range of business problems
in industries including healthcare,
financial services, and
retail and consumer.
In this video I will give you a high
level overview of the different types of
analysis that you can perform on data.
As part of the course you will
find supplemental reading
that covers each of these analysis
types and how they are used.
Now, it's important to keep in mind that
the analysis you choose to perform will
depend on a couple of things.
First, the problem you
are trying to solve, and second,
the data you can use
to solve that problem.
I'm going to start by talking
about cluster analysis.
Cluster analysis is when you
group a set of objects in a way
that objects in the same group or
cluster are more similar to one another
than those in the other clusters.
Cluster analysis is often
used in market research
when working with data from
focus groups and surveys.
A cluster analysis can be used to
segment a population of consumers
into market groups to better understand
the relationships between different
groups of consumers.
This analysis can help answer questions
such as, who are my target customers?
How are they differentiated on behavioral,
psychographic and
demographic characteristics?
Are there groups that have similar
attributes so that products,
services, price offerings,
can be used to customize segments?
Now, let's move on to
decision tree analysis.
A decision support tool that uses
a tree-like graph of decisions and
their possible consequences.
Including chance event outcomes,
resource cost, and utility.
Decision tree analysis is often used
to assist healthcare practitioners
considering varying treatments along
with each one's associated costs and
probability of a successful outcome.
For example, healthcare providers can
use this analysis to assess options and
deliver more cost effective treatments
that minimize the risk of hospital
readmission.
To analyze large numbers of dependent and
independent variables,
we might use factor analysis.
This type of analysis can help detect
what aspects of the independent variables
are related to the dependent variables.
When we receive the data,
sets that are fairly wide,
meaning that they had more variables
in observations or records.
We need a way to identify
the core set of variables or
drivers that will help to
gain meaningful insight.
Factor analysis can help identify that
reduced subset of variables, meaning
some of those variables represent similar
relationships as those not included, but
perhaps in a stronger way.
Machine learning is a type of artificial
intelligence that provides computers with
the ability to learn without being
explicitly programmed to do so.
For forward-thinking retailers,
the possibilities for
advanced machine learning are limitless.
Take for
example a company trying to predict
what customers will be buying next spring.
Machine learning algorithms can
determine availability of materials
from outside vendors, incorporate
various supply chain scenarios.
And recommend the quantity, price,
shelf placement, and marketing
channel that would best reach the target
consumer in a particular geographic area.
These algorithms can also be used to
optimize sales for an individual store.
Regression analysis is a statistical
process for estimating relationships
between a dependent variable and
one or more independent variables.
Variables are the pieces of information.
This type of analysis helps you
understand how the value of
a dependent variable changes when any
one of the independent variables change.
For example, a large insurance company
wants to identify the characteristics
including age group, income,
gender, educational level, etc.
Of customers that tend to make
the most automobile claims.
This type of analysis can
be used to assess risk, and
also assist with determining pricing for
various automobile insurance products.
Multivariate analysis
is the observation and
analysis of more than one statistical
outcome variable at a time.
This often includes as a first step
correlation analysis, which can help you
understand and visualize relationships
between pairs of variables.
Multivariate regression is a technique
that estimates a single regression model
with more than one outcome variable.
When there is more than one predictor
variable in a multivariate regression
model, the model is a multivariate
multiple regression.
To understand the relationships of outcome
effectiveness of a particular medical
treatment, one may also need to
understand confounding variables.
Such as age, weight, gender, or other
medications the patient may be receiving.
There may be multiple ways
to assess outcome and thus,
more than one dependent variable and
multiple independent variables.
Segmentation analysis divides a broad
category into subsets that have or
are perceived to have common features,
needs, interests, or priorities.
Often, segmentation analysis is used to
better understand customer needs by diving
a large number of individuals into
smaller groups based on a logical scheme.
Segmentation provides a convenient
mechanism around which to
develop products, construct programs,
and execute marketing tactics.
Imagine that a bank was developing
a strategy to become a leader
in mobile payments and mobile banking.
Traditionally, product penetration was
driven by the bank's relationship managers
and its branches.
Segmentation analysis could help the bank
gain market share by identifying key
customer segments and
developing product recommendations for
those that are more likely
to use mobile banking.
Sentiment analysis is
a process of identifying and
categorizing opinions expressed in a piece
of text to determine whether the writer's
attitude towards a topic or
issue is positive, negative, or neutral.
This analysis often relies on
natural language processing or NLP.
Which is use to perform the data
mining of the Internet.
These allows companies
to better understand
what their consumers are saying
about their product offerings and
to adjust strategies where feasible
to improve customer sentiment.
Categorization of the information
scraped from the Internet
can then be use to develop models.
Sometimes it's hard to
determine if a system or
a process will react to a change
the way we think it will.
One way to test changes to a system or
process is by performing a simulation.
A simulation is the imitation of
the operation of a real world process or
system over time.
It requires a model that represents
the key characteristics or
behaviors of a selective system or
process.
Think about hospital admissions.
For a hospital wanting to figure
out how to reduce wait time,
analytic tools could help
simulate the admission process.
Allowing the hospital to change
the values of certain variables and
see the impact on a patient's wait time.
The last type of analysis we want
to discuss is time series analysis.
Time series analysis can be used to design
a methodology to identify the factors
affecting airline passenger demand on
routes by leveraging macroeconomic,
demographic, and other external data,
at a local, state, and national level.
Such models can be developed to produce
a route level forecast of total demand for
air travel.
Helping to optimize route and capacity
planning and identify new routes for
market entry.
Time series analysis comprises methods for
analyzing data that are collected over
time to extract meaningful statistics.
Stock prices, sales volumes,
interest rates, and
quality measurements
are all typical examples.
Because of this sequential nature of
the data, special statistical techniques
accounting for the dynamic
nature of the data are required.
Now, let's answer one last assessment
question for this segment.
>> Lori covered some great
material in this session.
And as you can see there are many
different analytical techniques that can
be used to address a problem or
opportunity.
As I mentioned at
the beginning of this video,
there is a quick reference guide available
as part of this week's materials.
Use the guide to review
the different analytic techniques.
In the upcoming videos you're going
to hear from some of PWC's subject
matter specialists on tools used for data
and analytics and for visualizing data.
[MUSIC]